<!-- concatenation break -->

## Legal

\begin{wrapfigure}[11]{r}{0.35\textwidth}
\centering
\vspace{-\intextsep}
\includegraphics[width=0.33\textwidth]{files/Eschede/06_Torch.jpg}
\caption{Manual inspection with flashlights ("Seconds from Disaster")}
\end{wrapfigure}

Investigators started to question the inspection procedure for the duoblock
wheel type 064. On August 8th, 2002 a trial begins against three engineers
accused of a negligent homicide: two engineers from Deutsche Bahn and an
employee from the wheel manufacturer BVV. The engineers' defense was that they
had followed the technical standards of the time and that the fracture in the
wheel could not have been predicted. Deutsche Bahn is not in the dock itself
because in Germany only people can be tried not companies. After eight months
the trial ends in controversy: no one was found guilty. In German law, when there
is no substantial guilt a trial may be concluded with no guilty verdict and a
fine can be paid as a compromise and that's what happens in the case of Eschede
train crash. The prosecution and defense agree to a compromise: no one is found
guilty of a negligent homicide but the Court fines the three engineers ten
thousand euros each. Families of the victims and the survivors of the accident
are furious: the court's decision makes their fight for the compensation much
harder.

Soon after the accident, Deutsche Bahn did make initial good-will payments to
the families who had lost loved ones in the accident. The amount of 30000
deutsche marks for each person killed. This offer was met by some with anger
and derision. Deutsche Bahn later settled financially with many victims.

<!-- concatenation break -->

## Aftermath

Today Deutsche Bahn has removed the duoblock wheel type 064 from service and
replaced them with traditional monoblock wheels. They maintain that the wheels
and the inspections met the standards required at the time and that their
engineers could not have predicted a wheel fracture.

The original problem of vibration has been solved on a different level:

> "Also, the [ICE2] train has been equipped with air suspension to circumvent the wheel noise problems of the ICE 1, which led to the installation of rubber-buffered wheel rims on the ICE 1 units and therefore the Eschede train disaster." @wikipedia:en:ice2

As of November 2002, Deutsche Bahn claims to have paid more than 30 million
euros in compensation to the victim families and survivors of the crash.

\newpage

## Summary

The summary by "Failure Knowledge Database / 100 Selected Cases: InterCity Express Accident":

> "The wheel-tire design was originally developed for streetcars traveling at
significantly lower speeds. Its relatively  simple  structure had been employed
successfully in streetcars, eliminating resonance and vibration at cruising
speed. The wheel-tire design had neither been tested nor been in service at
high speed. The accident may have simply exposed the characteristics of rubber;
its relatively inferior wear and abrasion resistant properties."

NASA System Failure Case Studies - "Derailed" (2007):

> **Proximate Cause**

> - Wheel Rim Delaminating

> - Failure to stop the train immediately after wheel delaminating

> **Contributing Cause**

> - Flawed Emergency Operating Procedures

> **Underlying Issues**

> - Insufficient testing under operational condition

> - Ineffective maintenance requirements

> - Poorly designed overpass collapse
